---
name: 'v1.4.0'
date: '2024-04-09'
---

Features:
- Added a warning message about debug builds in CLI start.
- Moved JWKS cache storage to memory.
- Overhauled force implementation.
- Added `DEFINE TABLE ... RELATION`.
- Allowed RPC calls to be made over an HTTP connection, not just WebSocket.
- Allowed the highlighter to only highlight the matching searched token rather than the whole term.
- Added an `INCLUDE ORIGINAL` option to change-feeds.
- Added an `insert` method to the Rust SDK to allow bulk inserts.

Bug fixes:
- Fixed export generating unparsable code with the new parser.
- Eliminated a potential panic in MsgPack format implementation.
- Fixed `string::is::longitude` RegEx.
- Improved CBOR decoding.
- Fixed relation type parsing.
- Fixed handling of empty array on index.
- Allowed legacy headers in CORS.
- Allowed `surreal upgrade` to detect when upgrading to the same version and return early.
- Fixed certain environment variables to allow configuration at runtime.
- Reduced the byte size of datetime and uuid types using CBOR format.
- Fixed `array::group` in a group by query.

Performance improvements:
- Improved query aggregation handling.

#### Bulk insert support in the Rust SDK

This was one of the frequently requested features. While this was already possible using the `query`
method, this release adds an `insert` method that makes it more convenient.

```rust
db.insert(Resource::from("person"))
    .content(vec![
        User {
            id: thing("person:tobie")?,
            name: "Tobie",
            settings: Settings {
                active: true,
                marketing: false,
            },
        },
        User {
            id: thing("person:jaime")?,
            name: "Jaime",
            settings: Settings {
                active: true,
                marketing: true,
            },
        },
    ])
    .await?;
```