---
name: 'v1.5.0-beta.1'
date: '2024-05-10'
---

Features:
- Added an implementation of HNSW in memory.
- Added a `REBUILD INDEX` statement.
- Added `CONTENT` support for `RELATE` statements.
- Added more information to `INFO FOR SCOPE`.
- Added a relate method to the RPC protocol.
- Added an `INFO STRUCTURE` statement.
- Stabilised `sql2` and `jwks` features.
- Introduced an on-disk temporary table.
- Added a run method to the RPC protocol.
- Implemented limits for parsing depth in the new parser.
- Implemented reblessive into the parser to prevent any overflows.
- Increased the Minimum Supported Rust Version (MSRV) to 1.77.

Bug fixes:
- Made the query planner recognise the exact operator (`==`).
- Fixed `math:min` in foreign tables.
- Fixed typo in function `math:sum`: was `math::sun`.
- Made record IDs more flexible in the new parser.
- Reverted changefeed polling frequency back to 10 seconds.
- Fixed a problem with date-time parsing.
- Fixed response content-type on `/rpc` endpoint.
- Fixed decimal decoding.
- Made the query planner support the IN operator.
- Made the JWKS implementation more RFC 7517 compliant.
- Fixed wrong count when using `COUNT` with a subquery.
- Fixed the content type header on a CBOR HTTP response.
- Fixed `$value` being `NONE` for `DELETE` events.
- Fixed `array::group` in a group by query.

Performance improvements:
- Added a query planner strategy for record links.
- Made `TreeCache` more efficient on writes.
- Reduced byte size of datetime and UUID types using CBOR format.

